# Project_Fat_Spiderman_Report
#### **INITIAL IDEA / CONCEPT OF THE PROJECT**
The initial concept for this project was based on puzzle and physics gameplay. Early brainstorming had been influenced by puzzle games such as Portal and Inside. Our idea started focusing on the games physics and its possibilities for puzzle making and solving. Relying mostly on the physical interactions between assets the idea grew around the players ability to utilise certain objects to his advantage or disadvantage to complete the levels. We were initially trying to achieve this by adding some special abilities to the playable character such as a grappling hook. The grapple would allow the player to reach for the required prop that would help him solve the puzzle or allow him to overcome an obstacle by swinging around specific parts in the level.
Our unique selling point was well-defined by the grappling hook and we soon began developing the game design around that feature. Following a group merge, the game started having more elaborate ideas being stirred into the pot and the team agreed in keeping the abilities simple and with a unique purpose. Eventually we decided to scrap the idea of being apple to pull objects towards you and instead came up with a weight-based system that would blend into the puzzle system by working in favour or against the players in the game.
The concept became known as the Fat Spiderman project, a first-person puzzle game where the players objective is to solve platformer puzzles to go from an area to the other. The puzzles are based on the swinging and on the weight of the player, who will have to exhibit good control of the characters abilities and movement to make it through the challenges.
The character’s main abilities were narrowed down to a set of two; a grappling hook that serves as a movement enhancer, allowing the player to swing over greater distances, and an ability to absorb and/or release items that would affect the character’s weight and consequently its movement abilities but also his strength. 
